wearing socks helps you sleep better
whether or not to wear socks to bed has
been a debate of the ages science now
says the answer is yes keeping your feet
warm helps you fall asleep faster and
stay asleep it helps with circulation to
warm feet keep your blood vessels open
open blood vessels tell your brain then
it's time to sleep and they also evenly
distribute heat to the rest of your body
to keep you comfortable what side of the
debate are you on do you sleep with or
without socks let me know down in the
comments
think about what material your PJs are
made of what are your individual needs
cotton is all-natural soft and
all-around comfy but do you have night
sweats if so then cotton might not be
the best choice for you as it's not
great at wicking away moisture if you
have night sweats you can buy moisture
wicking PJs silk is surprisingly good at
body temperature control but can be
slippery and pricey flannel is ideal for
the winter months if you still keep your
bedroom cool at the end of the day
literally what you feel most comfortable
in is what you should sleep in keep it
loose tight clothing isn't ideal for a
good night's sleep buy tight I mean
leggings anything made of compression
material or tight elastic wearing tight
clothing to bed isn't good for
circulation which affects that sleep
pattern I mentioned earlier tight
clothing may also cause you to sweat you
Grove's
so whether you like to shop for pj sets
or just wear whatever t-shirt you've got
at home keep your jammies loose and
breathable by the way this goes for your
socks too
opt out of the compression socks when
you're hitting the hay avoid buttons
snaps zippers and jewelry yeah those
extras might make your pajamas look
stylish but they can't potentially
irritate your skin and disrupt that
precious sleep cycle you might even be
allergic to some of the metals used in
these accessories they would be fine to
lounge in but
probably not very comfortable to sleep
in pajamas are the last thing that
should be complicated especially during
a late night bathroom break
wash your PJs regularly hmm not to gross
you out but your jammies are home to
millions of dead skin cells and bacteria
from sweat
oh plus if you usually have a late night
snack add food particles to that list
it's recommended to wash ur pajamas
after you've worn them three or four
times or you can always invest in a few
pairs of your favorites if you don't
wash your pajamas it increases your risk
for bacterial infections and skin
irritation talk about sleep disruption
the best PJ's might be no PJs sleeping
in the nude is really good for the body
think about our ancestors I'm pretty
sure their jammies were nothing fancy
sleeping sans PJs is good for your skin
and hair it allows the pores to breathe
and as it turns out the body is pretty
good at regulating its own temperature
so you're not likely to sweat if the
body temperature stays down is better
for growth hormones which helps with
anti aging and promotes a better
metabolism say what yeah ditching
pajamas can boost your metabolism which
can lead to a healthier weight consider
a sleep mask it might not be clothing
per se but a sleep mask will shut out
any light wear earplugs to to block out
any sound darkness and silence will get
you your best and deep asleep science
backs this one to covering the eyes and
ears during sleep has been shown to
increase the body's melatonin level
which is our brains natural sleep
inducing hormone need some more sleep
tips other than counting sheep keep your
bedroom cool about 65 degrees Fahrenheit
is the optimal temperature for sleep
during all seasons not too hot and not
too cold during the winter months you
might want to break out those flannel
jammies
the key is to balance the rooms
temperature with your body temperature
you're more likely to wake up in the
middle of a night from being hot rather
than being cold a cooler room
temperature can even increase your brown
fat that's the good fat in your body
drink a soothing hot tea before bed
chamomile and peppermint are both super
relaxing herbs that are popular in teas
and the best thing is these teas are
decaffeinated and can be found in any
grocery store there are even some teas
that are marketed specifically for sleep
keep a sleep inducing plant in your
realm there are a lot of plants that are
known to help with sleep but 3 of the
most popular are lavender jasmine and
aloe vera all three reduce anxiety slow
heart rate and lower blood pressure aloe
vera in particular is very good at
giving off good clean oxygen so you'll
be breathing cleaner air which in turn
will help ease you into a deeper sleep
Plus lavender and jasmine both smell
wonderful which will induce peace of
mind and relaxation breathe essential
oils similar to drinking a hot herbal
tea herbal scents can be powerful
relaxers - lavender peppermint and
eucalyptus are the most calming sense
out there you could take some whiffs of
the open essential oil bottle or if you
have an oil diffuser even better
breathing deeply is an instant relaxer
but doing some deep breathing with these
scents will ease you right into sleep
protip there are pillow sprays you can
buy that contain the essential oils of
these relaxing herbs keep the
electronics out of the bedroom it's too
easy to play on our phones or tablets
when lying in bed to relax before
shutting our eyes or trying the falling
asleep - TV method none of these really
work our electronics / stimulate our
brains even long after we put them down
or turn them off
remember how I mentioned complete
darkness and silence earlier electronics
interfere with that plus the light from
your phone or tablet may be harmful to
your eyes if the rest of the room is
dark so save words with friends for
earlier in the evening
invest in nice sheets
you won't regret the splurge just like
your PJs your sheet should be soft and
breathable but also like your PJs your
sheet should be washed regularly since
they too will become home to dead skin
cells and bacteria from sweat try out
different thread counts but know that
the higher the thread count the more
expensive the sheets will be however
good sheets can last you a lifetime go
to bed at the same time every night this
is a tip that sleep docks will repeat
over and over again which is repetitive
and redundant no matter if it's in the
middle of the work week or the weekend
try to go to bed at the same time every
night and get up at the same time each
morning I know I like to sleep in on
Saturday mornings too but it'll help you
get better sleep in the long run if your
body starts preparing itself for sleep
at the same time each night you'll fall
asleep faster skip the late night snack
I know it's tempting
everyone loves some popcorn while they
watch their evening TV shows or maybe we
even snag some leftovers from dinner
resist the temptation a late-night snack
means extra carbs and the body uses
carbs for energy your body may think
it's activity time when it's really time
to go to sleep
plus a late-night snack will mess with
your sleep cycle even if you fall asleep
you may not be able to stay asleep just
make sure you eat a healthy filling
dinner
soak up some vitamin D what I mean is
get plenty of natural sunlight during
the day we have something in our bodies
called our circadian rhythm and it's
affected by sunlight it works like this
when the Sun is out that means it's
daytime so we should be awake and active
when the Sun Goes Down and it's dark
that means it's time for activity to
decrease so our body can prepare for
sleep it's the most natural and holistic
way to improve your sleep you're welcome